#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
---
layout: post
title: Trip to Berlin - Part 1
category: photography
published: false
tags:
  - berlin
  - berlin wall
---
#+END_EXPORT

In December, Julia and I took a four night trip to Berlin. This post is a collection of my photos and memories from the
trip broken down day by day. It’s mostly written as a diary for my future self, but hopefully it should help people who
are visiting Berlin to make some choices about what things to go and see - and if you are interested in vegan food, some
places to go and eat.

We picked Berlin because neither of us had been before, it has some very interesting history, and at this time of year
there’s the added benefit of the Christmas markets.

#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
<!-- more -->
#+END_EXPORT

Day 1

The first place we visited after arriving at Schonefield airport was our Airbnb apartment in Kreuzberg just the opposite
side of the river to the East Side Gallery. As you can see from the reviews, the host Ursula is very friendly and the
flat itself is great. I would recommend it if you’re looking for somewhere.

Shortly after dropping off our bags we headed to Rootz cafe Berlin for a very tasty vegan burger. It’s right by the
apartment and on the U1 line so it’s nice and easy to get to.

After that we headed to Markethalle for their Street Food Thursday event. Markethalle is an indoor street food market
with many vendors and types of food and lots of seating space as well as food there are delicatessen style stalls
selling traditional cheese, wine, and sausages.










After that we headed to Alexanderplatz, which I can only describe as a fairly soulless concrete blister of a place. It
feels very much like any modern city shopping center. There’s nothing interestingly German about it and in my opinion
it’s best avoided. However, it does have a Christmas market and it’s incredibly easy to get to from our apartment
(Alexanderplatz is a transport hub), so we picked it for our first German Christmas market.

Side note: Berlin is not really famous for its Christmas markets, but according to Visit Berlin’s website there are over
60 markets to visit there. If you’re looking for a town with more famous markets, there are many travel blogs with lists
such as this one and this one. Having not personally experienced any other German Christmas markets, I think Berlin
succeeded in capturing that magical wintery feeling, particularly in <insert place name here>.




Here you can see Berlin’s iconic TV Tower. As the tallest building in German and the second tallest building in all of
the EU (only losing out by half a meter), it is almost always visible when you’re out and about in Berlin. In the right
of the picture you can see a stall selling Glühwein, a German kind of mulled wine which is very popular at these
markets. Something I didn’t realise before coming, each of these market cities (and sometimes individual markets
themselves) has its own gluhwein mug which is a great souvenir and potential collectors item. Typically you pay a small
deposit for the mug along with the price of the drink and you can just keep it after you’re finished drinking. Some of
the larger markets also have rides or even ice rinks, and most sell festive decorations and miscellany that would make
great gifts.







Day 2

On the second day we walked out of the apartment, across the bridge, and headed towards the East Side Gallery. On the
way we passed a peculiar place called YAAM. In the winter time it looked like a somewhat run-down grassy (muddy) area
with a couple of stalls selling t-shirts next to a large warehouse. In actuality this is a really interesting
place. YAAM stands for the Young African Art Market, and there’s a playground for kids and a very popular beach bar/club
that plays reggae music and regularly holds events. In the daytime it’s a little dead, but it really livens up in the
evenings. We didn’t go inside, but the reviews of the places are exceptional. If you’re looking for a Carribbean/reggae
themed bar, check this place out.

YAAM from across the river Spree. Later, our alternative Berlin tour guide would describe the cranes in the background
as tombstones for interesting buildings.

From there we headed to the East Side Gallery, which is a fascinating example of solidarity against oppression all over
the world by people from all over the world. The section of the wall itself is incredibly significant, and it contains
105 paintings from different artists dedicated to the concepts of freedom and peace.


One of the most iconic pieces is shown above, has its own Wikipedia page. This is a large tourist photo hotspot with
people queueing up to have their photos taken here. This painting is one of the few on the wall to not be protected by a
fence.

Said fence aims to provide some protection against graffiti artists, but it’s not always successful. The photo below
shows a section of the wall painted by Ines Bayer and Raik Hönemann. The full inscription reads “es gilt viele mauern
abzubaue”, a translation of a quote made by Ronald Raegan in 1987 “there are many walls to be torn down”, two years
before the fall of socialism, and with it, the fall of the Berlin wall. I was particularly taken with this piece,
showing people of all races tearing down a wall. The graffiti inscription shows the outrage of those who have lived
through the terrible times of the Berlin wall against somebody who advocates separatism and believes that the path to
greatness lies in fear and discrimination.

In the evening we headed to the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag building. We walked from the far end of Tiergarten
intending to have a nice walk in the park but it was already too dark for that. It turns out it's not a great place to
walk at night when you can't see, but in the middle is the TODO tower that offers a pretty good view of the city and has
some interesting history. After that we carried on walking to the Brandenburg gate. Todo

The Reichstag building requires a pre-booked ticket to get in, but they are free and you can book them on your phone a
few hours before. You book a time slot, arrive, go through the security checks and bag search, then head up a lift. The
ticket only gets you access to the dome, but don't let the booking system and a bag search put you off - it's a really
good exhibition. The bottom of the dome has an exhibition on the modern political history of Germany, and there is an
informational audio guide available in several languages to listen to while you slowly walk up the spiral pathway to the
top.

Day 3

On the third day we headed to Alexanderplatz for the starting point of Alternative Berlin’s street art walking tour. We
didn’t really know what to expect, but despite walking around outside for almost four hours on what was probably the
coldest day of the trip, this tour was one our most enjoyed activities of our time in Berlin.

They have incredibly good TripAdvisor reviews and I’m shortly to add mine to the list. It’s a three hour (approximately,
ours ended up taking almost four) walking tour around Berlin that involves a short train ride, so bring an AB zone
validated ticket. You start in Alexanderplatz and walk through the streets as the your guide points out graffiti and
street art and explains a bit about the pieces, the artists, and the social and economical context from which the art
was born. It taught me a lot about the history of Berlin especially revolving around the wall and the poverty in
Berlin. Being an alternative tour it also covered alternative living choices such as squats, going into their history,
how they operate legally, and recent clashes with the government. The tour stopped in some fascinating places such as
the alleyway next to the Anne Frank Zentrum that is a street art goldmine and has great history as well (you’ll have to
do the tour to hear about it!).


The murals and art here was fantastic. Layers on top of layers of people’s work. Political or comical, historic or
futuristic, it’s like an ever-mutating museum of murals.

It’s not just ink on walls either. There are many different types of sculpture and several instances of yarn bombing:

Some of the murals were benign, some were obviously political, and some could either be a harmless joke or a scathing
social commentary.

The tour finished incredibly close to our flat, so we headed back to warm up a little and then left for Green Market
Berlin, a “vegan lifestyle market”. The market was split into two sections. Inside there was a small cinema showing a
documentary as well as lines of stalls selling clothes, green coffee cups made from recycled coffee beans, and food.





Outside there were street food stalls. We both had the excellent “no girlfriend burger” from Réger Burger.


When we left, I realised that the market was very close to a bar that was in my Lonely Planet guide that I didn’t
remember much about except that I’d thought it sounded good, so we decided to check it out. I’m not a big fan of loud
bars but I wanted to see what Berlin had to offer. According to Google Maps it was in a shopping center, but we checked
the map of the center and then every floor to see if it perhaps wasn’t on the map and found nothing. Eventually we asked
a staff member at the cinema on the top floor and he gave me some very strange instructions. Something like “walk out
that door to the car park, head up two flights of stairs, then catch the lift to the fifth level”. Well, intrigued, we
did, and I was very surprised when we got out of the lift!



I don’t visit a lot of hidden or quirky places, so maybe this is less surprising to some of you out there, but the idea
of traveling through a multi-storey car park to get to a bar is very odd to me. We followed the sign and sure enough, at
the very top of the car park we reached Klunker Kranich.

It occupies the entire top floor of the multi-storey car park. There’s a lot of outdoor seating but we were there in
late December and almost everybody was sitting inside the main bar building. The decoration felt nothing like anything
I’d experienced in London or elsewhere. Very artistic with sculptures made from what looked like found and recycled
items, a tree made of items that looked like they’d come from a young boy’s bedroom, and a giant lit-up cat head.

I’d thoroughly recommend anybody check this place out. The bar has a nice atmosphere and it’s quite chilled. There are
beers and cocktails on the menu and I would imagine it’s a really nice place to visit on warm summer evenings.

One of the things that I really liked at the bar was the Foto Automat. This isn’t specific to Klunker Kranich at all -
in fact according to the company’s map they have 24 locations across Berlin as well as several other cities. The automat
is a passport photo machine that’s very cheap and uses an analogue process to make the prints. Since it’s a cheap
service and the automats are created and maintained by an independant company, they’ve grown in popularity and have
become a popular way to record a social occasion. Our alternative tour guide said that he had several on his fridge, and
one of the main games was to fit as many people into the automat as possible. I really like the idea behind this
company, and having a tangible print to stick up is a wonderful thing. We managed to get a great sequence of photos with
no planning at all. What a fantastic way to remember a night out.

Day 4
Flohmarkt im Mauerpark -> Chaostheorie Berlin -> German History Museum -> Gendarmenmarkt -> Soy

Day 5

Westberlin coffee shop -> Checkpoint Charlie -> Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe -> Brandenburg Gate ->

General sights of Berlin




Other Christmas Market




Voner


Checkpoint Charlie
Chaostheorie






Gendarmenmarkt


Hi
