---
layout: post
title: "Budapest and Athens with the FM2N"
date: 2014-12-27 23:54:02 +0000
comments: true
categories: 
---

Until recently I had never been to either Hungary or Greece, so I was quite
excited to go on a short trip spending 5 days in Budapest and then 4 days in
Athens. I brought along my Nikon FM2N that I acquired from last year's
[Photographica Fair](http://www.pccgb.net/photographica_fair.html) in London as
well as two Nikon Series E lenses (the 50mm f/1.8 and 35mm f/2.5) and some
Kodak Portra 400 and Fuji Superia 200. Below is a selection of photos from the
trip with some short descriptions.

[Heroes' Square](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H%C5%91s%C3%B6k_tere) is at the
end of a long road leading away from the river on the Pest side of the city in
City Park. It's a huge landmark and was filled with tourists, myself included.

![Tourists at Heroes' Square, Budapest](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0068.jpg)

<!-- more -->

It's a good idea to check Heroes' Square out at night as well, possibly after
spending a relaxing evening at the nearby Széchenyi public baths. The picture
below shows a restaurant on the edge of the lake in City Park in the evening.

![Night time near Széchenyi thermal bath](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0020.jpg)

I would also recommend the tour of the Hungarian State Opera House which can be
found on the road leading up to Heroes' Square. It felt rather rushed but was
lots of fun and the building itself is filled with ornate detail.

![Inside the Hungarian State Opera House](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0079.jpg)

Budapest is split in two by the river into Buda (historical buildings,
generally more expensive) and Pest (cultural, food and drink, fast growing). I
spent a while on each side but have many more photos of Buda. I would recommend
getting the [Budapest Card](http://www.budapest-card.com/) if you're visiting
because among other things there's a walking tour around the whole area of Buda
Castle that is very interesting. My tour met at Trinity Square near Buda
Castle.

![A tour group at Trinity Square, Budapest](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0058.jpg)

There's an interesting church called the Matthias Church at Trinity Square with
some interesting patterns in the roof tiles.

![Matthias Church, Trinity Square, Budapest](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0063.jpg)

The tour gives a good view and description of the area and talks about the
history and the different cultures that you can find. There's a great little
café called [Ruszwurm](http://www.ruszwurm.hu/) with an incredible collection
of cakes that I highly recommend nearby, and there's a restaurant called
[Pest-Buda](http://www.pestbudabistro.hu/) on the hill also if you're after
something more substantial.

![Ruszwurm, near Budapest Castle](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0062.jpg)

Not too far away is a statue of a horseman dedicated to the 3rd Hussar Regiment.

![Statue of András Hadik](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0052.jpg)

It is said that touching the brass testicles of the horse you will have good
fortune - a tradition started by university students before exams and continued
by tourists and locals alike. You can imagine how much good luck has been
provided by this statue by checking out how incredibly smooth and shiny the
testicles are compared to the rest of the statue.

![András Hadik's shiny balls](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0053.jpg)

It's interesting to note that there are many equestrian statues like this
around Budapest and throughout Europe. The position of the hooves of the horse
is [said to indicate how the rider of the horse died](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equestrian_statue#Hoof-position_symbolism).
If both hooves are in the air, the rider died in battle. If only one hoof is in
the air it means the rider died from battle related injuries after the battle,
and if all four hooves are on the floor it means that the rider did not die in
battle.

On the hill also is Budapest's Presidential Palace which has a big square in
front of it. There is a changing of the guards ceremony on the hour between
certain times (check [their website](http://budacastlebudapest.com/changing-of-the-guards-at-the-buda-castle/)
for times).

![Changing of the guard at Budapest Presidential Palace](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0024.jpg)

Also on the hill is the [Budapest History Museum](http://www.btm.hu/) whose
entrance square was undergoing somewhat of a dramatic makeover when I walked
through. There was building material everywhere and construction was under way
of some additional structures around the courtyard. It wasn't typical
repair-work however. This was construction out of wood and polystyrene for a
film set.

![Film set construction, Budapest History Museum](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0029.jpg)

There were people constructing the set, people beating it up with hammers to
knock out holes to create a bullet or explosion damage effect, people painting
the polystyrene to fit in with the surrounding buildings (with damage colours
added) and people painting huge polystyrene statues.

![Film set construction, Budapest History Museum](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0016.jpg)

This entire section of building is fake. The actual courtyard wall is flat.

![Film set construction, Budapest History Museum](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0031.jpg)

On the Pest side of the river is where you'll find the night life, many more
places to eat, ruin bars, shopping centers, and most of the accommodation. It
also has many museums and interesting pieces of architecture including the
Hungarian Parliament building.

![Hungarian Parliament Building, Budapest](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0038.jpg)

The next set of photos are from Athens, Greece. Athens was much more of a party
and hospitality city. There were many more restaurants and bistro-style cafés.
Music wafted down the streets from bars and people were selling things on the
streets both inside and outside of markets. The weather was much warmer and
there was a clear blue sky for almost the whole trip. While Budapest was jumper
weather, Athens was definitely T-shirt weather.

![Bistro, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0016.jpg)

There were a lot of vintage and antique markets near the Acropolis. I spent a
long time wandering around looking for old cameras and bits and bobs.

![Antiques market, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0017.jpg)

It was also much more tourist-oriented than Budapest. There were rows upon rows
of tourist shops and the Athens Happy Train which seemed to take riders around
a large circuit around the Acropolis area.

![Athens Happy Train](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0018.jpg)

There is a lot of history that's been preserved in Athens. Unlike Budapest
where the settlement is much more recent and there isn't a huge amount of
religious monuments, Athens has been a center of trade since ~1,000BC and has
had continuous settlement for 7,000 years. Most of the architecture has not
stood the test of time intact however, such as this section of the Temple of
Olympian Zeus.

![Temple of Olympian Zeus, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0001.jpg)

In fact so many pieces of historical monuments, walls, and pillars were
damaged, rebuilt into other things (such as the Roman wall by the Ancient
Agora), and/or stolen that while a lot of work seems to be being put into
re-arranging and re-constructing artefacts, there is a huge amount of rubble
and stone just lying around waiting for attention.

![Do Not Enter - pile of rubble, Temple of Olympian Zeus, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0003.jpg)

The Acropolis itself is astounding. A large number of the tourist attractions
are ticketed but there is a single 12 euro ticket that covers entry to each of
them (once each). For what you get I thought the price was fantastic,
especially as I visited everything that the ticket provided entrance to. I'd
also really recommend the Acropolis Museum, it's a really nicely designed
building with a great exhibition.

The Acropolis itself is under constant restoration at the moment. The whole
front is shrouded in scaffolding but that didn't stop the hundreds of tourists
pouring through. It's essentially a one direction circuit around several sights
and monuments and then back down the other side of the hill.

![Scaffolding on the front of the Acropolis](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0096.jpg)

![Tourists at the Acropolis](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0110.jpg)

There are several large hills in the area of the Acropolis which is where I
spent most of my time - circling it several times on foot during my stay - and
this vista shows the style of architecture in Athens with the Ancient Agora in
the foreground.

![Ancient Agora, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0005.jpg)

![View of the city, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0029.jpg)

While the architecture is a huge tourist attraction, it's deservedly so.
Conjuring up images of what it must have been like to live in such a time, the
monuments are beautiful both day and night.

![Temple of Hephaestus](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0001.jpg)

![Temple of Olympian Zeus, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0009.jpg)

Here's a view of the Acropolis with two people sitting and drawing from
Filopappou Hill - well worth the hike up.

![View of the Acropolis](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141029_0025.jpg)

One thing I wasn't expecting to see was tortoises. There was quite a few of
them actually, often seen after hearing a strange rustling sound in the leaf
litter on the floor.

![Tortoise, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0004.jpg)

One thing that wasn't included in the monument ticket was the Panathenaic
Stadium. This isn't expensive to get into and the ticket includes an audio
guide.

![Panathenaic Stadium, Athens](/images/2014/12/28-budapest-athens/IMG_20141101_0089.jpg)

Overall both Athens and Budapest were excellent. I had some delicious meals in
Budapest (the Pork Mangalica is delicious) and I really enjoyed walking around
as the architecture is so different from London. Athens had more old historical
ruins but Budapest had many more museums. They're two very different places but
both had their charms. You'll have to see which ones you prefer yourself!
