---
layout: post
title: "Testing a 1952 Kodak Retinette"
date: 2014-09-10 21:49:20 +0100
comments: true
categories: 
---

Last year I was given a Kodak Retinette 17b by my grandfather. I remember
spending a while looking through my grandparents photo album with photos from
their lives from before I was born. My father had mentioned to my grandfather
that I was interested in cameras, and he fetched their old camera and their
photo album from its storage place. I looked at the camera then spent some time
looking through the album. Old photos that show how others experienced life are
always interesting but one photo stood out at me. It was taken on my
grandparents' wedding day and depicts my grandparents standing and smiling in
front of the camera. What makes it special is that in my grandmother's hand is
something familiar - the same camera that was sitting right in front of me. It
felt like I was holding a piece of family history.

The Retinette is 17b was produced between 1952 and 1954. The range is a less
expensive version of the Retina cameras and it was aimed at enthusiasts. The
17b was the last model to have a folding lens, and mine features a
Schneider-Kreuznach Remar 1:4.5 50mm lens. It's in good condition and has the
original leather container. It's not a particularly expensive camera but it has
great personal value. I loaded it with some FP4 that came in a second hand bulk
loader I purchased, so I have no idea how old it is. Below you can find some
photos from the test roll, self developed in Ilfosol 3.

![Marching band at the Thames Festival](/images/2014/09/10-kodak-retinette/IMG_20130927_0010.jpg)

![Art exhibition on the Thames](/images/2014/09/10-kodak-retinette/IMG_20130927_0011.jpg)

![Tower Bridge](/images/2014/09/10-kodak-retinette/IMG_20130927_0012.jpg)

![Dover tug from St. Katherine's Docks](/images/2014/09/10-kodak-retinette/IMG_20130927_0003.jpg)

![Required tools](/images/2014/09/10-kodak-retinette/IMG_20130927_0008.jpg)

This is one of the reasons I love old film cameras. How many pieces of modern
technology do you own that will still be working in 60 years?
