---
layout: post
title: "A weekend in Dover and Canterbury"
date: 2015-04-12 09:30:09 +0100
comments: true
categories: travel
author: Martin Foot
tags:
- canterbury
- dover castle
---

In April 2013 I took a weekend trip to Dover and Canterbury with a friend of
mine. It makes a great short break from London if you want to cram in the sight
seeing into two or three days. Canterbury is easily accessible by train from
London and there are plenty of B&Bs that are close enough to the historical
center. There's a lot to do both inside and outside at Canterbury - we spent
the majority of our time here. We also spent a day by taking the short train to
Dover and exploring Dover Castle, the secret wartime tunnels, and the White
Cliffs.

![Canterbury street](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000033.jpg)

<!-- more -->

# Canterbury

Canterbury is a town with a lot of history. It's the home of Canterbury
Cathedral, the end-goal of pilgrims since the martyrdom of Thomas Becket - the
journey which is the setting of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales - and a UNESCO World
Heritage Site. It's very well preserved and the architecture and streets around
the center are a great example of the classic English vision. The Romans are
responsible for the origins of the current layout, building a temple, public
baths, and guard houses. Much of the original Roman architecture is gone, but
under the street level and inside the [Canterbury Roman Museum](http://www.canterbury.co.uk/museums/roman-museum/)
you can see excavated remains and get a sense of what life would have been
like. Some parts of the city are still available to see, like this huge section
of wall:

![Part of the old city wall at Canterbury](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000027.jpg)

The area around the cathedral houses many boutique shops, souvenir shops, and
ice cream parlours, cafes and restaurants. The city has a large number of
tourists throughout the year so this area is geared up to cater for them. That
doesn't stop the center from being beautiful though. With many old and
traditional buildings and suitably styled businesses operating inside them it
has an air of friendliness and charm that you don't get in modern built tourist
areas.

![Canterbury street](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000033.jpg)

The cathedral is the architectural centrepiece of Canterbury - or at least the
bit of Canterbury that we explored. It is gigantic and is set in some really
lovely grounds. It fills the landscape around it and rightly so. The cathedral
itself is of great historical and religious importance.

![Canterbury Cathedral](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000037.jpg)

Inside you can see Norman/Roman styles, and both early and late English Gothic
styles. I always find such huge archways are very awe inspiring. There's an
immense sense of the weight of the history of the building.

![Inside Canterbury Cathedral](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000035.jpg)

![Inside Canterbury Cathedral](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000036.jpg)

Outside there are a couple of different companies offering guided punt tours on
different sections of the river. We took a ride with two other people and the
punt driver. Blankets were provided, and along the course of the tour we were
told about some of the history of the area, particularly relating to the
buildings that we were passing. Exciting stories of pilgrims and the Spanish
Inquisition. I would highly recommend this for a relaxing and fun activity if
you have time.

![Riding in a punt on a river in Canterbury](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000030.jpg)

![Riding in a punt on a river in Canterbury](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000031.jpg)

Canterbury has many waterways and paths that you can walk along, free from the
skyscraper-dotted skyline of many other cities in England.

![A river walkway in Canterbury](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000040.jpg)

It's also particularly pretty when the trees are blossoming. You can see the
blossoms in several of the pictures in this post.

![My friend and I in front of a blossoming tree in Canterbury](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000039.jpg)

# Dover

We took a day trip to Dover from Canterbury. Leaving in the morning, we had
time to get the train to Dover, check out Dover Castle, then walk down to the
beach to see the cliffs before getting the train back to Canterbury. The photo
below shows the street leading up to the castle with a blurry castle on the
hills in the background.

![The road up to Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000008.jpg)

As you walk up the path to the castle you see many many of the stickers that
you get when you buy your ticket. They are plastered on doors, walls, and this
bin. It seems that some effort has been made to remove old ones in places, but
newer ones still have quickly filled the stickerless holes.

![A bin on the way to Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000009.jpg)

Being a seaside town, there's quite a lot of gulls. This one was very used to
people and came to try and steal some chips.

![A particularly bold seagull at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000010.jpg)

The castle grounds are well preserved and consist of several different
buildings that visitors can walk around and experience.

![The Keep at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000014.jpg)

Several of the rooms are decorated as they may have been in the past. It was
somewhat chilly inside but it was an enjoyable experience. You meander through
the halls and staircases on a prescribed path and can go to the top if you
like.

![Inside Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000016.jpg)

As with many such buildings, the staircases are spiral in design and are quite
thin. Hand rails have been installed, but it's always a little scary to meet
somebody coming down while you're going up.

![A spiral staircase at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000017.jpg)

![Posing in a window at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000018.jpg)

![Me on the stairs at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000020.jpg)

The view from the top is worth the walk up the staircase. You can see down to
the Port of Dover and beyond into the ocean.

![The view from the top of Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000021.jpg)

Dover Castle is the largest castle in England and had a huge defensive
significance due to its position since it was built in the 12th century. It is
easy to see why it's an important English Heritage site, with conservation
efforts and tourism-driving events happening regularly.

![The view from the top of Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000022.jpg)

![My friend sitting on a canon at Dover Castle](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/2013-04-27 15.39.11.jpg)

Leaving the castle down the hill it's a not-too-far walk to the beachfront
itself. There is a pier and views of the port and the white cliffs. We stayed
for a coffee in a nearby cafe then made our way back to the train station.

![The beachfront at Dover](/images/2015/04/dover-and-canterbury/000025.jpg)

All in all it's a nice weekend getaway from London. A bit rushed if you want to
see many things - Canterbury could easily consume the weekend itself,
especially if you want to do shopping - but it's easy to get to and a big
change from the city.
