---
layout: post
title: "A road trip around the Cotswolds and Bath"
comments: true
categories: photography
author: Martin Foot
tags:
- bath
- cotswolds
- nikon
- fm2n
- film photography
---

In June 2014 I took a road trip with two of my friends from London. We set off
to Bath but traveled via the Cotswolds to soak in some of the countryside.
Leaving London we went north in a rental car and spent the
day experiencing some of the delightful villages and towns that the Cotswolds
has to offer. The whole area is beautiful in June and I suspect they would be
nice to visit any time of year. For somebody like myself who grew up on a farm
and is now living in a big city it was a welcome break to the countryside -
filled with rolling hills and quaint houses.

One of the earlier villages that we stopped at - I think it was Bibury - had an
art sale happening in the local church so we popped in for a look around and a
cup of tea.

![Tea and Cake, Bibury, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0002.jpg)

<!-- more -->

I brought with me the Nikon FM2n with some Kentmere 400 film and a Lomography
Spinner 360 loaded with Kodak Portra 400. The monochrome images in this post
were developed using Rodinal R09 One Shot developer.

After tea the next stop was a little bit north in a town called
Bourton-on-the-Water. It was great weather and the town was immaculate and it
seemed to be a popular tourist destination. Filled with small beautiful rivers
with nice paths, stone bridges, and ice cream parlours, it would be a great
place to relax for an afternoon.

![Bourton on the water, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0016.jpg)

Heading north again we passed The Slaughters (what a peculiar name). Split into
Upper and Lower Slaughter they seemed less of a tourist destination and more
residential. There's a nice river flowing through it and we saw a family of
ducks.

![Upper Slaughter, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0014.jpg)

Upper Slaughter had a phone box converted into a defibrillator.

![A defibrillator in an old phone box, Broadway, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0017.jpg)

Driving north a little more we reached Broadway, a slightly larger town with
restaurants and shops etc.

![A small town street, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0012.jpg)

Somebody had been 'yarn bombing'.

![Yarn bombed street post, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0013.jpg)

On the top of a nearby hill stands Broadway Tower, a 20 metre tall tower built
at the end of the 1700s. Near by there is a nuclear bunker, which [according to
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadway_Tower,_Worcestershire) is
from the Cold War and is one of the few remaining fully equipped nuclear
facilities in England.

![Broadway Tower, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0010-2.jpg)

They keep deer near the tower.

![A male deer near Broadway Tower, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0007-2.jpg)

Once we were done at Broadway it was getting dark and we headed on towards
Bath, where we stayed with two friends overnight. We had a nice meal in the
evening then headed to the Roman Baths in the morning. These have been on my
'to visit' list for a long time and I really enjoyed seeing them.

![Outside the Roman baths, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0002.jpg)

After buying a ticket you're lead around an interesting historical exhibition
and then quite quickly come out around the balcony. You can see the baths below
as well as the statues that adorn the balcony with the huge Bath Abbey in the
background.

![Roman statue and Bath Abbey](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_00155.jpg)

![View of the Roman baths at Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_0004-2.jpg)

You go back inside for more of the exhibition then you come out on the floor
level of the baths.

![Exhibit at the Roman Baths, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140617_00133.jpg)

The whole bath house used to have a roof which has long since gone. The
sunlight allows algae to live in the naturally warmed water causing the whole
thing to look green.

![Roman baths, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140618_0001.jpg)

The exhibition then takes you underneath the bath to see some of the Roman
ruins and architecture.

![Exhibition around the Roman baths, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140618_0005.jpg)

![Exhibition around the Roman baths, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140618_0006.jpg)

Outside it's nice to walk around the often steep, small, and windy roads that
cover the city. There's a large river running through it offering historical
and sight seeing boat trips and a nice path to walk along.

![View from the river, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0008.jpg)

![View from the river, Bath](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0009.jpg)

After we left Bath we headed south west to Cheddar Gorge, a place I have been a
few times before and always enjoyed. It's become more expensive recently and
it's definitely gets a lot of its trade from tourism but it's a nice experience
to see the caves, and especially to take a walk around the top of the gorge.
There's a steep staircase up to the top called Jacob's Ladder and then a large
spiral-staircased lookout tower where you can see for miles around.

![Climbing up towards Jacob's Ladder, Cheddar Gorge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0007.jpg)

The view from the top of the tower is stunning. Here's the town of Cheddar and
their circular reservoir in the distance.

![View of the reservoir and town, Cheddar](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0005.jpg)

After walking for a while we took a break and sat down near the edge. That's
where I spotted this guy standing on a very precarious looking precipice trying
to take a photo.

![Photographer taking a picture on a precarious outcrop, Cheddar Gorge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0018.jpg)

I have no idea how his shots turned out but he made a good focal point for
mine!

![Photographer standing on a precarious outcrop, Cheddar Gorge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0019.jpg)

On the way back we headed back towards Bath to the small town of Lacock. It's
a small village that's almost entirely owned and repaired by the National
Trust, meaning it's almost unspoiled and is a true sight to behold. It's also
the home of a very important man in the world of photography, [Henry Fox
Talbot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Fox_Talbot).

![Lacock, Cotswolds](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0013.jpg)

After Lacock we headed to our final stop before heading back to London, Stone
Henge. The henge has become quite a guarded area in recent years. They have
built a large car park and encourage people to pay to park there and then take
the shuttle bus to see the henge itself. We parked in a little dirt track right
next to the henge and walked to the field to the north and into the public
footpath. The authorities had put up a large fence to try and stop people
taking pictures of the henge from this path, deliberately obscuring the view of
the henge for the non-paying customers. We met a guy there who was not at all
keen with this raising of prices and who took great pleasure in showing
tourists how to see the henge without paying any money down this track. I have
to say that the view was definitely marred by the fence so it may be worth the
money if it's your first visit. You won't get to see the sheep along the
footpath though...

![Sheep, Stonehenge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0010.jpg)

Here you can see the fence that's been put up. It has a mesh netting over it to
further obscure the henge from people on the path.

![Looking through the fence, Stonehenge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0021.jpg)

Headed back towards the car, the sun burst through the clouds that had been
rolling in with some brilliant rays of sunlight. The photo definitely doesn't
give it justice.

![Bales and rays of sunlight, Stonehenge](/images/2015/05/06-cotswolds-road-trip/IMG_20140619_0011.jpg)

All in all it was an excellent way to spend a weekend. I'd happily go back and
explore more of the Cotswolds!
